.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

===========================
tsurud 0.12.4 release notes
===========================

Welcome to tsurud 0.12.4!

tsurud 0.12.4 includes :ref:`bug fixes <bug-0.12.4>`  and some
:ref:`improvements <improvements-0.12.4>` on error reporting and in the way
tsuru handlers application logs.

.. _improvements-0.12.4:

Improvements
============

* Reduce the amount of MongoDB connections in the WebSocket that receive
  application logs. The code used to keep too many connections laying around.
  The old code used to keep at most one connection per app per WebSocket, and
  now it keeps one connection per WebSocket.

* Reduce the amount of Redis connections in the WebSocket that receive
  application logs. This is kind of bugfix and improvement: the code used to
  recreate the instance of the connection pool on every request instead of
  sharing the pool across requests.

* Report status in the API when relaunching bs containers, preventing
  connection aborts when upgrading the version of bs (issue `#1268
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1268>`_)

.. _bug-0.12.4:

Bug fixes
=========

* Fix the translation of application name to Docker images that caused
  applications that do not belong to the app being deleted (issue `#1302
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1302>`_)

* Fix race condition that caused the deploy to fail with the message "unit not
  found" (issue `#1303 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1303>`_)

* Fix bug in log forwarding that caused the API to panic sometimes.
