.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

===========================
tsurud 0.12.3 release notes
===========================

Welcome to tsurud 0.12.3!

tsurud 0.12.3 includes :ref:`bug fixes <bug-0.12.3>` and some
:ref:`improvements <improvements-0.12.3>` on unstable network environments.

.. _improvements-0.12.3:

Improvements
============

* On some unstable network environments it was possible for a deploy to remain
  frozen while running Attach and Wait operations on the docker node. This can
  happen after a network partition where the connection was severed without FIN
  or RST being sent from on end to the other.

  This problem was solved in two different ways. First TCP keepalive was enabled
  for all connections with the Docker API. This way if there are any problems
  severing the connection, the keepalive probe will hopefully receive RST as an
  answer when the connectivity with the remote server is re-established, closing
  the connection on our end.

  As a failsafe, while tsuru is blocked on Attach and Wait requests it will also
  keep polling Docker for the current container state. If the container is
  stopped it means that the Attach and Wait operations should have ended. At
  this moment tsuru will resume the deploy process and ignore the output from
  Attach and Wait.

* Use the KeepAliveWriter across all streaming handlers in the API, so the API
  is able to cope with small timeouts in the network.

* Add a service level proxy so service APIs can have management plugins. This
  proxy endpoint checks the permission of the user as an admin of the service.
  The other proxy endpoint checks the user permission in the service instance.

.. _bug-0.12.3:

Bug fixes
=========

* Fix bug in ``/units/status`` route that is called by bs containers. The bug
  caused this route to return a 500 error if the request included containers
  with the status ``building`` in tsuru's database.

* Fix error message in the docker-node-update handler when it's called with an
  invalid name (issue `#1207 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1207>`_).

* Fix bug in Procfile parsing in the API. We used to parse it as YAML, but a
  Procfile is not really an YAML.

* Properly manage repository permissions in Gandalf after running
  app-set-team-owner (issue `#1270
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1270>`_).

* Fix quota management for units in applications (issue `#1279
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1279>`_).
