.. Copyright 2016 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

==========================
tsurud 1.0.0 release notes
==========================

Welcome to tsurud 1.0.0!

These release notes cover the :ref:`new features <new-1.0.0>`,
:ref:`bug fixes <bug-1.0.0>`, :ref:`general improvements <general-1.0.0>` and
:ref:`backward incompatible changes <backwards-1.0.0>` you'll want to be aware
of when upgrading from tsurud 0.13.x or older versions.

.. _new-1.0.0:

Main new features
=================

* Deploy applications using Docker image (`#1314
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1314>`_). Now it's possible to deploy a
  Docker image as tsuru app using `tsuru app-deploy -i` command.  This image
  should be in a registry and be accessible by tsuru api. Image should also have
  a Entrypoint or a Procfile at given paths, `/` or `/app/user/` or
  `/home/application/current`. See more in `tsuru-client app-deploy reference
  <https://tsuru-client.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference.html#deploy>`_.

* Improved application log handling. Besides several performance improvements in
  log handling, it's now possible to configure tsuru to forward containers logs
  directly to an external log server.

* API versioning. Now all API calls to tsuru may include a version prefix in the
  format ``/1.0/<request path>``. Further changes to the API will be versioned
  accordingly.

.. _bug-1.0.0:

Bug fixes
=========

* Correctly remove images from docker registry v2. tsuru was failing silently
  when trying to remove old images from docker registry v2. (`#1361
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1361>`_)

* After a failure adding or removing routes from a router it was possible for
  applications to have incorrect route entries in the router. This happened
  because router failures generally also prevented rollback commands from
  successfully executing in the router. To prevent this problem from happening
  in the future tsuru will now check if the router is consistent after every
  operation that interacts with external routers. (app-deploy, app-swap,
  containers-move, healing process...)

  If this check is not successful tsuru will schedule a message in it's internal
  queue system (monsterqueue) that will keep trying to ensure routers are
  consistent. This should completely remove the possibility of having incorrect
  route entries after failures.

* Users are now dissociated from roles on role remove. Previously removing a
  role still being used would cause errors when checking permissions.

.. _general-1.0.0:

General improvements
====================

* `projectid` parameter is not mandatory in `Apache CloudStack
  <https://cloudstack.apache.org/>`_ (`#1260
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1260>`_).

* A new app description field, that can be used to describe the app objective
  (`#1327 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1327>`_).

* New `SAML V2` authentication scheme. See :ref:`SAML authentication
  configuration <saml_configuration>` for instructions on how to configure it.

* Add new filters in the user list API endpoint: now it's possible to filter
  users by role and e-mail (issue `#1349
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1349>`_).

* Change user list filtering behavior. Consider users with permissions:

  A: app.create(team team1), app.create(team team2)
  B: app.create(team team1)

  The previous behavior was such as if user A called user-list they would see
  both users A and B. However user B calling user-list would only see
  themselves.

  Now user B will be able to see user A on user-list but only app.create(team
  team1) permission will show up.

* Add a way to put units in `sleep mode`. Making possible external services to
  put units that are not used to "sleep".

* EC2 IaaS is now feature complete, supporting parameter such as IAM roles,
  extra volumes and multiple network interfaces. Since these parameters are
  composed of multiple values, users must provide a JSON for using them. It
  also supports using private DNS names now, as long as the user specifies the
  subnet-id and the index of the network interface that they want to use. For
  example, with IAM instance profiles, block devices and running on a private
  network:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    % tsuru-admin docker-node-add iaas=ec2 'iaminstanceprofile={"name":"docker-instances"}' 'blockdevicemappings=[[{"DeviceName":"/dev/sda1","Ebs":{"VolumeSize":100}}]' subnetid=subnet-1234 network-index=0 ...

* Digital Ocean IaaS now supports private networking. When the parameter
  ``private-networking`` is defined to ``true``, Tsuru will attach a private
  network interface to the Droplet and use this address to communicate with the
  managed node. (`#1345 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1345>`_).

* All long running API handlers for the Docker provisioner now use a keep-alive
  to keep the connection open, properly handling low network timeouts (specially
  with AWS Elastic Load Balancers).

* A new service instance description field, that can be used to describe the
  service instance objective (`#1335
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1335>`_).

* Add a new filter in the app listing API endpoint: now it's possible to filter
  applications by unit status (issue `#1360
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1360>`_).

* Add a new handler that returns the service instance info (issue `#1331
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1331>`_).

* New deploy origins: `image` for image deploys and `drag-and-drop` that is used
  to identify deploys made from `tsuru-dashboard`.

* A new handler that returns the role info (issue `#1353
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1353>`_).

* New filters in the user list endpoint: now it's possible to filter users by
  username and role.

* A new handler to update service instance (issue `#1336
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1336>`_).

* Add token authentication support in Galeb router backend.

* Add AddRoutes and RemoveRoutes to router interface These methods allow adding
  and removing multiple routes at the same times. The idea is to start using
  these new methods when possible, specially in the deploy pipeline. A
  significant performance improvement is expected in the Galeb router after this
  change.

* Several performance improvement changes receiving log messages from
  applications.

* Add description flag to role-add command (--description/-d), allowing users to
  add a description for newly created roles.

* It's now possible to limit the number of simultaneous docker commands running
  on the same docker node. Check the :ref:`config reference <docker_limit>` for
  more information.

.. _backwards-1.0.0:

Backward incompatible changes (action needed)
=============================================

* The way the ``bs`` container is managed has changed. If you have any
  configuration setting for ``bs`` that was added using ``tsuru-admin
  bs-env-set`` you must run ``tsurud migrate`` to ensure every config env has
  been copied to the new structure.

  ``bs`` containers should now be managed using ``tsuru-admin
  node-container-update big-sibling [options...]``. See `node containers
  reference <https://tsuru-admin.readthedocs.org/en/master/reference.html#node-containers-management>`_
  for more information.
