.. Copyright 2016 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

==========================
tsurud 1.2.0 release notes
==========================

Welcome to tsurud 1.2.0!

These release notes cover the :ref:`new features <new-1.2.0>`, :ref:`bug fixes
<bug-1.2.0>` and :ref:`required migrations <migrations-1.2.0>`.

.. _new-1.2.0:

New features
============

Multiple provisioners
---------------------

**Experimental** support for multiple provisioners. This release of tsuru is
the first in a long time to support multiple provisioners. The provisioners in
tsuru are responsible for, among other things, schedule containers on different
nodes and handle moving containers in case of failures.

Our default provisioner implementation remains the same, it includes a
battle-tested containers scheduler and healer and has been in production for
over 3 years, managing thousands of containers every day.

However, the scenario has changed a lot since tsuru first started 3 years ago.
Where the options for container orchestration/scheduling were few and imature,
now they are plenty and (in some cases) stable. Because of this change we
thought it would be nice to experiment on how to integrate other container
schedulers as tsuru provisioners. These experiments have the potential of
motivating us to change the default provisioner used in tsuru and remove a
whole bunch of code from tsuru.

To allow a seamless experience, first, a ``provisioner`` attribute was added to
pools. It can be set using ``tsuru pool-add --provisioner`` and ``tsuru
pool-update --provisioner``. This allows changing the provisioner of single
pool, you can also set the default provisioner in the :ref:`config file
<config_provisioner>`.

Over the course of the next tsuru releases we intend to add **experimental**
support as provisioners for:

* `Docker Swarm mode <https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/>`_ (``swarm``
  provisioner)
* `Mesos/Marathon <https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/>`_ (``mesos``
  provisioner)
* `Kubernetes <http://kubernetes.io/>`_ (``kubernetes`` provisioner)

This release focused on adding support for the ``swarm`` provisioner. Please
note that as much as we'd love feedback on the new added provisioners, they
should be considered as highly **experimental** and may be removed from tsuru
in the future. Because of that we cannot recommend them for production
environments just yet. That said, please do play and report any bugs found
while using them.

IaaS integration with Docker Machine
------------------------------------

Apart from containers orchestration one thing that sets tsuru apart is the
ability to also orchestrate virtual machines. This is accomplished using tsuru
:ref:`managed nodes <installing_managed_nodes>`. Previously we had support for
only 3 IaaS providers: Amazon EC2, Digital Ocean and Cloudstack.

Starting on this version we added a new IaaS provider that uses Docker Machine
as a backend, this means all drivers `supported by Docker Machine
<https://github.com/docker/machine/tree/master/drivers>`_ and also `community
supported drivers
<https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/blob/master/machine/AVAILABLE_DRIVER_PLUGINS.md>`_
can be used to add managed nodes to tsuru. This is huge and adds support for
big names like Azure, Google Compute Engine, among others.

Docker TLS support for provisioners
-----------------------------------

In this version we added support for orchestrating containers on docker nodes
configured with TLS. TLS is mandatory for nodes created using the newly
introduced Docker Machine IaaS and can be also configured for nonmanaged and
nodes provisioned with other IaaS providers. Both provisioners, native and
swarm, support docker with TLS.

HTTPS routing support for apps
------------------------------

In this version, we added support for configuring TLS certificates for
applications. The certificate and private key are passed directly to the
application router which is responsible for TLS termination. Currently, the
`planB router <https://github.com/tsuru/planb>`_ is the only router that
supports managing TLS certificates and HTTPs routing directly from tsuru.

Certificates should be configured for each app cname using ``tsuru
certificate-set -a <app> -c <cname> cert.crt key.crt`` and can be removed by
``tsuru certificate-unset -a <app> -c <cname>``.

``tsuru certificate-list -a <app>`` may be used to list certificates bound to a
particular app.

Other improvements
------------------

* `gops <https://github.com/google/gops>`_ can be used to extract information
  from tsurud process. `#1495 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1495>`_
* Basic support for prometheus style metrics on ``/metrics`` endpoint. `32c117
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/commit/32c117b5c9d90d1244bbbeaffd7060ecbd6c33df>`_
* Improved documentation on how to extract and process metrics from application
  containers. `#1460 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1460>`_
* Improved documentation on how to install and use tsuru-dashboard. `#1444
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1444>`_
* When a single IaaS is configured tsuru will use it as default. `#1259
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1259>`_

.. _migrations-1.2.0:

Required migrations
===================

* Due to a bug in tsuru, it was possible for duplicated entries to be added to
  the ``db.routers`` collection in MongoDB. This collection keeps track of
  swapped application routers when ``tsuru app-swap`` is used. To fix the
  duplicated entries simply run ``tsurud migrate``. The migration will try its
  best to fix the entries but it might fail in some extreme corner cases. In
  case of failure it will print the offending entries that will have to be
  manually fixed in MongoDB (i.e. removing one of the duplicated entries).

.. _bug-1.2.0:

Bug fixes
=========

* Correctly using entrypoint and command in image deploys. `#1484
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1484>`_
* Removing healthcheck from hipache router when backend is removed. `#1450
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1450>`_
* Fixed error when listing nodes if there were no nodes registered. `#1436
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1436>`_
