.. Copyright 2017 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

==========================
tsurud 1.4.0 release notes
==========================

Welcome to tsurud 1.4.0!

These release notes cover the :ref:`new features <new-1.4.0>`, :ref:`bug fixes
<bug-1.4.0>`. For a complete list of changes, `check our 1.4.0 github milestone 
<https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20milestone%3A1.4%20>`_.

.. _new-1.4.0:

New features
============

Multiprovisioner persistent volume support (`#1599 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1599>`_) (Experimental)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This feature allows applications running on tsuru to use external volumes for storage and mount them. This feature
is available for apps running on Kubernetes and Swarm provisioners. 
Refer to :doc:`volumes documentation </managing/volumes>` for more information.


Generic API based Router (`#1572 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1572>`_)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The support for a new router type, named `api`, was introduced in this release.
This type of router resembles the service concept, in which it is an agnostic
API that must follow a specific contract. This API will be called on every router
operation, e.g, adding and removing new routes.

Backward incompatible changes
=============================

Required migrations
-------------------

To fix issue `#1625 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/pull/1625>`_, which caused
tsuru to possibly remove the wrong envs when unbinding services, it was
necessary to change the way environment variables originated from services are
saved. Just run ``tsurud migrate`` after updating tsuru to fix them on the
storage.

Platform changes
----------------

Due to changes in the build process and changes to `tsuru/deploy-agent
<https://github.com/tsuru/deploy-agent>`_ it's required to update platforms to
the latest version before tsuru allows new deploys.

Other improvements
==================

* Improved validation for several resources upon creation
  eg `#1680 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1680>`_ and 
  `#1613 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1613>`_

* Enable updating an app's platform on app update
  `#1591 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1591>`_

* Enable creating apps without platform
  `#1491 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1491>`_

* Enable forcing a fresh deploy for an app
  `#813 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/813>`_

* Enable service restriction to pools
  `#1654 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1587>`_

* Enable rollback restriction to certain images
  `#1414 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1414>`_

* Enable update a role name and description
  `#1379 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1379>`_

* Enable changing service instance team owner
  `#1581 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1581>`_

.. _bug-1.4.0:

Bug fixes
=========

* app-run --isolated should have the same environment of regular app-run 
  `#1615 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1615>`_
* Unable to unset private variable
  `#1589 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1589>`_
* Unbind units should retry after failure on remote service
  `#1440 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1440>`_
* Prevent adding units to stopped apps
  `#1347 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1347>`_
* Autoscale should be active besides docker:auto-scale:enabled
  `#1456 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1456>`_
* Fix service unbind causing wrong env vars to be removed from app `#1625
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/pull/1625>`_
