.. Copyright 2013 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

Application Deployment
======================

This document provides a high-level description on how application deployment
works on tsuru.

Preparing Your Application
--------------------------

If you follow the `12 Factor <http://www.12factor.net/>`_ app principles you
shouldn't have to change your application in order to deploy it on tsuru. Here
is what an application need to go on a tsuru cloud:

 1. Well defined requirements, both, on language level and operational system
    level
 2. Configuration of external resources using environment variables
 3. A Procfile to tell how your process should be run

Let's go a little deeper through each of those topics.

1. Requirements
+++++++++++++++

Every well writen application nowdays has well defined dependencies. In Python,
everything is on a requirements.txt or like file, in Ruby, they go on Gemfile,
Node.js has the package.json, and so on. Some of those dependencies also have
operational system level dependencies, like the Nokogiri Ruby gem or
MySQL-Python package, tsuru bootstraps units as clean as possible, so you also
have to declare those operational system requirements you need on a file called
``requirements.apt``. This files should have the packages declared one per-line
and look like that:

::

    python-dev
    libmysqlclient-dev

If you need to add new repositories for installing system level dependencies,
create a file called ``repositories.apt``, with a repository per line.

2. Configuration With Environment Variables
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Everything that vary between deploys (on different environments, like
development or production) should be managed by environment variables. tsuru
takes this principle very seriously, so all services available for usage in
tsuru that requires some sort of configuration does it via environment
variables so you have no pain while deploying on different environments using
tsuru.

For instance, if you are going to use a database service on tsuru, like MySQL,
when you bind your application into the service, tsuru will receive from the
service API everything you need to connect with MySQL, e.g: user name,
password, url and database name. Having this information, tsuru will export on
every unit your application has the equivalent environment variables with their
values. The names of those variables are defined by the service providing them,
in this case, the MySQL service.

Let's take a look at the settings of tsuru hosted application built with Django:

.. highlight:: python

::

    import os

    DATABASES = {
        "default": {
            "ENGINE": "django.db.backends.mysql",
            "NAME": os.environ.get("MYSQLAPI_DB_NAME"),
            "USER": os.environ.get("MYSQLAPI_DB_USER"),
            "PASSWORD": os.environ.get("MYSQLAPI_DB_PASSWORD"),
            "HOST": os.environ.get("MYSQLAPI_HOST"),
            "PORT": "",
        }
    }

You might be asking yourself "How am I going to know those variables names?",
but don't fear! When you bind your application with tsuru, it'll return all
variables the service asked tsuru to export on your application's units
(without the values, since you are not gonna need them), if you lost the
environments on your terminal history, again, don't fear! You can always check
which service made what variables available to your application using the
`tsuru env-get` command.
