.. Copyright 2012 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Deploying Python applications
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Overview
========

This document is a hands-on guide to deploying a simple Python application in
tsuru. The example application will be a very simple Django project using a
SQLite database. It's applicable to any WSGI application.

Creating the app
================

To create an app, you use the command `app create`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app create <app-name> <app-platform> <team>

For Python, the app platform is, guess what, ``python``! Let's be over creative
and develop a never-developed tutorial-app: a blog, and its name will also be
very creative, let's call it "blog":

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app create blog python --team

To list all available platforms, use the command `platform list`.

You can see all your applications using the command `app list`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app list
    +-------------+-------+--------------------------+
    | Application | Units | Address                  |
    +-------------+-------+--------------------------+
    | blog        |       | blog.192.168.50.4.nip.io |
    +-------------+-------+--------------------------+

You can then send the code of your application.

Application code
================

This document will not focus on how to write a Django blog, you can clone the
entire source direct from GitHub:
https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru-django-sample. Here is what we did for the
project:

#. Create the project (``django-admin startproject blog``)
#. Create a "posts" app (``django-admin startapp posts``)
#. Add a "Post" model to the app
#. Register the model in django-admin

Deployment
==========

You can just run ``tsuru app deploy`` command and your project will be deployed:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app deploy -a blog .
     -- Using python version: 2.7.13 (default) --
     /home/application/current /

     ---- Building image ----
      ---> Sending image to repository (0.01MB)
      ---> Cleaning up


Now you can check your deployed app running `tsuru app info`

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app info -a blog
    Application: blog
    Repository: git@192.168.50.4.nip.io:blog.git
    Platform: python
    Teams: admin
    Address: blog.192.168.50.4.nip.io
    Owner: admin@example.com
    Team owner: admin
    Deploys: 0
    Pool: theonepool
    Units: 1
    +-----------------------+---------+
    | Unit                  | Status  |
    +-----------------------+---------+
    | blog-eab5151eff-51eff | started |
    +-----------------------+---------+

    App Plan:
    +---------------+--------+-----------+---------+
    | Name          | Memory | Cpu Share | Default |
    +---------------+--------+-----------+---------+
    | autogenerated | 0 MB   | 100       | false   |
    +---------------+--------+-----------+---------+

Listing dependencies
====================

In the last section we omitted the dependencies step of deploy. In tsuru, an
application can have two kinds of dependencies:

* **Operating system dependencies**, represented by packages in the package manager
  of the underlying operating system (e.g.: ``yum`` and ``apt-get``);
* **Platform dependencies**, represented by packages in the package manager of the
  platform/language (in Python, ``pip``).

All ``apt-get`` dependencies must be specified in a ``requirements.apt`` file,
located in the root of your application, and pip dependencies must be located
in a file called ``requirements.txt``, also in the root of the application.
Since we will use Django, we need to install ``django`` package using ``pip``.
As this project doesn't have any external dependencies, we don't need a
``requirements.apt`` file. Here is the ``requirements.txt`` file contents:

::

    Django<=1.11

You can see the complete output of installing these dependencies below:

.. highlight:: bash

::

     $ tsuru app deploy -a blog .
     -- Using python version: 2.7.13 (default) --
     /home/application/current /
     requirements.txt detected, using 'pip install -r ./requirements.txt' to install dependencies
     Requirement already satisfied: Django<=1.11 in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from -r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     Requirement already satisfied: pytz in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from Django<=1.11->-r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     /

     ---- Building image ----
      ---> Sending image to repository (0.01MB)
      ---> Cleaning up

Running the application
=======================

As you can see, in the deploy output there is a step described as "Restarting
your app". In this step, tsuru will restart your app if it's running, or start
it if it's not. But how does tsuru start an application? That's very simple, it
uses a Procfile (a concept stolen from Foreman). In this Procfile, you describe
how your application should be started. We can use `gunicorn
<http://gunicorn.org/>`_, for example, to start our Django application. Here is
how the Procfile should look like:

::

    web: gunicorn -b 0.0.0.0:$PORT blog.wsgi

Now we commit the file and push the changes to tsuru git server, running
another deploy:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app deploy -a blog .
     -- Using python version: 2.7.13 (default) --
     /home/application/current /
     requirements.txt detected, using 'pip install -r ./requirements.txt' to install dependencies
     Requirement already satisfied: Django<=1.11 in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from -r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     Requirement already satisfied: pytz in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from Django<=1.11->-r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     /

     ---- Building image ----
      ---> Sending image to repository (0.01MB)
      ---> Cleaning up
      ---> Restarting your app
     /var/lib/tsuru/hooks/start: line 13: gunicorn: command not found
      ---> Deploy done!

Now we get an error: ``gunicorn: command not found``. It means that we need to
add gunicorn to ``requirements.txt`` file:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ cat >> requirements.txt
    gunicorn==19.6
    ^D

Now run another deploy:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app deploy -a blog .
     -- Using python version: 2.7.13 (default) --
     /home/application/current /
     requirements.txt detected, using 'pip install -r ./requirements.txt' to install dependencies
     Requirement already satisfied: Django<=1.11 in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from -r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     Requirement already satisfied: gunicorn==19.6 in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from -r ./requirements.txt (line 2))
     Requirement already satisfied: pytz in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from Django<=1.11->-r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     /

     ---- Building image ----
      ---> Sending image to repository (0.01MB)
      ---> Cleaning up
      ---> Restarting your app

      ---> Deploy done!


Now that the app is deployed, you can access it from your browser, getting the
IP or host listed in ``app list`` and opening it. For example,
in the list below:

::

    $ tsuru app list
    +-------------+-----------+---------------------+
    | Application | Units     | Address             |
    +-------------+-----------+---------------------+
    | blog        | 1 started | blog.cloud.tsuru.io |
    +-------------+-----------+---------------------+


We can access the admin of the app in the URL http://blog.cloud.tsuru.io/admin/.

Deployment hooks
================

It would be boring to manually run ``syncdb`` and/or ``migrate`` after every
deployment. So we can configure an automatic hook to always run before or after
the app restarts.

tsuru parses a file called ``tsuru.yml`` and runs restart hooks. As the
extension suggests, this is a YAML file, that contains a list of commands that
should run before and after the restart. Here is our example of tsuru.yml:

.. highlight:: yaml

::

    hooks:
      build:
        - python manage.py collectstatic -c --noinput
        - python manage.py migrate

For more details, check the :ref:`hooks documentation <yaml_deployment_hooks>`.

tsuru will look for the file in the root of the project. Let's commit and
deploy it:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app deploy -a blog .
     -- Using python version: 2.7.13 (default) --
     /home/application/current /
     requirements.txt detected, using 'pip install -r ./requirements.txt' to install dependencies
     Requirement already satisfied: Django<=1.11 in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from -r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     Requirement already satisfied: gunicorn==19.6 in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from -r ./requirements.txt (line 2))
     Requirement already satisfied: pytz in /var/lib/pyenv/versions/2.7.13/envs/app_env_2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages (from Django<=1.11->-r ./requirements.txt (line 1))
     /

     ---- Building image ----
      ---> Sending image to repository (0.01MB)
      ---> Cleaning up
     ---- Running build hooks ----
      ---> Running "python manage.py collectstatic -c --noinput"
      ---> Restarting your app

      ---> Deploy done!

It's done! Now we have a Django project deployed on tsuru.

Going further
=============

For more information, you can dig into `tsuru docs <http://docs.tsuru.io>`_, or
read `complete instructions of use for the tsuru client
<https://tsuru-client.readthedocs.org>`_.
