========================
tsr 0.10.0 release notes
========================

Welcome to tsr 0.10.0!

These release notes cover the `new features`_, `bug fixes`_, `backward
incompatible changes`_, `general improvements`_ and `changes in the API`_
you'll want to be aware of when upgrading from tsr 0.9.0 or older versions.

.. _`new features`: `What's new in tsr 0.10.0`_
.. _`general improvements`: `Other improvements in tsr 0.10.0`_
.. _`changes in the API`: `API changes`_

What's new in tsr 0.10.0
========================

* Now ``tsuru app-run`` and ``tsuru-admin ssh`` use ``docker exec`` to run
  commands on containers, this means that tsuru doesn't sshd inside containers
  anymore, making the containers more lightweight and saving some machine
  resources (issue `#1002 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1002>`_).

* It's now possible to have multiple routers configurations in your tsuru.conf
  file. The configuration to be used will be defined by which plan the
  application is using. See :ref:`routers <config_routers>` configuration
  reference and `plan-create
  <http://tsuru-admin.readthedocs.org/en/latest/#plan-create>`_ command for
  more details.

  For plans without a router configuration, the value defined in
  ``docker:router`` will still be used. So nothing will break with this change.
  See :ref:`docker:router <config_docker_router>` for more information.

  There's also a new router available: Galeb. For more details, please refer to
  :ref:`tsuru configuration reference <config_routers>` and `Galeb's webpage
  <http://galeb.io/>`_.

* Users are now able to create apps with the same name used by a platform
  (issue `#712 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/712>`_).

* Extended the ``healthcheck`` entry in the ``tsuru.yaml`` file so users can
  specify a threshold of allowed failures. Please refer to the :ref:`tsuru.yaml
  documentation page <yaml_healthcheck>` for more details (thanks Samuel
  ROZE).

* It's now possible to rollback your application to a previously deployed version.
  To support this feature the commands ``app-deploy-list`` and ``app-deploy-
  rollback`` were added. Also, all newly created application images in docker are
  versioned with ``:vN``. You can change how many images will be available for
  rollback in ``tsuru.conf``. See :ref:`config reference
  <config_image_history_size>` and `tsuru-client reference <http://tsuru-
  client.readthedocs.org>`_ for more details.

Bug fixes
=========

* Fix error message for unauthorized access in the ``team-user-add`` endpoint
  (issue `#1006 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1006>`_).

* Fix double restart bug on bind and unbind. When binding or unbinding apps,
  previous version of the tsuru-server daemon restarted the app twice, making
  the process _really_ slow when apps have a lot of units.

* Do not try to restart an app that has no units when removing environment
  variables.

* Bring back restart:after hooks, running them from the API after success in
  the healthcheck.

Other improvements in tsr 0.10.0
================================

* tsuru doesn't store SSH public keys anymore, this handling is forwarded to
  the repository manager, and it's possible to run tsuru with no key handling
  at all, by setting ``repo-manager`` to "none". Then the client will fail on
  ``key-add``, ``key-remove`` and ``key-list`` with the message "key management
  is disabled" (issue `#402 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/402>`_).

* Improve user actions tracking. All app-related actions now use the
  ``app=<appname>`` format.  Currently, these informations are available only
  in the database now, but in the future tsuru will expose all actions to
  admins, and may expose all actions of a user to themself.

* Support EBS optimized instances in the EC2 IaaS provider (issue `#1058
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1058>`_).

* Improve user feedback (thanks Marc Abramowitz)

    - when the user creation fails
    - when failing to detect authentication scheme in the server
    - when making an unauthenticated requests, and receiving an unauthorized
      response
    - when resetting password

* Improve user feedback on API start-up (thanks Marc Abramowitz)

    - send fatal failures both to standard output and syslog (issue `#1019
      <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1019>`_)
    - properly report failure to connect to MongoDB
    - properly report failures to open the /etc/tsuru/tsuru.conf file
    - print the list of Docker nodes registered in the cluster
    - include more precise information about the router (including the
      configured domain and Redis endpoint, for Hipache)

* Properly set Content-Type headers in the API (thanks Marc Abramowitz)

* General improvements in the documentation:

    - Using rsyslog in tsuru applications (issue `#796
      <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/796>`_). See the :doc:`logging
      documentation </using/logging>` for more details;
    - Improvements in the :doc:`recovery docs </using/recovery>` (thanks Mateus
      Del Bianco)
    - General grammar and RST syntax fixes in the documentation (thanks
      Alessandro Corbelli, Lucas Weiblen, Marc Abramowitz and Rogério Yokomizo)
    - Improve the :doc:`contributing page </contributing/index>`
    - Properly document the :doc:`states of appplication units
      </using/unit-states>`
    - Split client documentation pages from the tsuru-server docs, there are
      now dedicated documentation sites for `crane
      <http://tsuru-crane.readthedocs.org>`_, `tsuru-admin
      <http://tsuru-admin.readthedocs.org>`_ and `tsuru-client
      <http://tsuru-client.readthedocs.org>`_.
    - Fix broken links in the documentation pages.
    - Improve Hipache installation docs.

* Add instructions for :doc:`upgrading Docker </managing/upgrading-docker>` in the management documentation.

Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* This version of tsuru makes uses of some features available only in the
  latest version of `Gandalf <https://github.com/tsuru/gandalf>`_, so if you
  plan to continue using Gandalf after this upgrade, you need to upgrade
  Gandalf to the `version 0.6.0 (or bigger)
  <https://github.com/tsuru/gandalf/releases/tag/0.6.0>`_.

* tsuru changed the name of Docker images used. During start-up, the server
  daemon will migrate images automatically. This may slow down the first
  start-up after the upgrade (issue `#712
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/712>`_).

* Drop support for Docker images that do not run `tsuru-unit-agent
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru-unit-agent>`_. Starting at tsuru-server
  0.10.0, every platform image must have tsuru-unit-agent installed, and ready
  to run.

API changes
===========

tsuru-server 0.10.0 also include some changes in the API. Please refer to the
:doc:`API documentation page </reference/api>` for more details.

* ``/apps/{appname}/ssh``: new shell route to access app containers. In
  previous versions of API this route was in provision/docker package and just
  allowed admin access to app containers.  Now, standart users and admin users
  can access app containers through ssh. Admins can access any app in tsuru
  and standart users can only access your apps.

* ``/deploys``: allow non-admin users to issue requests to this endpoint. The
  response will list only deployments of applications that the user has access
  to. Admin users can still see all deployments from all applications (issue
  `#1092 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1092>`_).

* ``/healthcheck``: tsuru now has an improved healthcheck endpoint, that will
  check the health of multiple components. In order to check everything, users
  should send a new request with the querystring parameter ``check`` set to
  ``all``. Example: ``GET /healthcheck?check=all`` (issue `#967
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/967>`_).

* ``/info``: this new endpoint returns meta information about the current
  running version of tsuru, like the server version and which components are
  enabled (issue `#1093 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1093>`_).

* ``/services/instances/{instance}/{appname}``: bind and unbind endpoints now
  streams the progress of the binding/unbinding process (issue `#963
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/963>`_).

* ``/tokens``: removed endpoint for generating an application token via the
  API. Users can no longer send POST requests to this URL.
