.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

========================
tsr 0.11.0 release notes
========================

Welcome to tsr 0.11.0!

TODO: reference external contributors in issues.

These release notes cover the `new features`_, `bug fixes`_, `general
improvements`_ and `backward incompatible changes`_ you'll want to be aware of
when upgrading from tsr 0.10.0 or older versions.

.. _`new features`: `Main new features`_
.. _`general improvements`: `Other improvements`_
.. _`backward incompatible changes`: `Backward incompatible changes (action needed)`_

Main new features
=================

* Pool management overhaul. Now pools are a concept independent on the docker
  provisioner. You can have multiple pools associated with each team. If that's
  the case, when creating a new application, users will be able to choose which
  pool they want to use to deploy it.
  
  To support these features some client commands have changed, mainly ``tsuru app-create``
  support a ``--pool <poolname>`` parameter.

  Some action is needed to migrate old pool configuration to this new format. See
  `backward incompatible changes`_ section for more details. `#1110
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1110>`_

* Node auto scaling. It's now possible to enable automatic scaling of docker
  nodes, this will add or remove nodes according to rules specified in your
  tsuru.conf file. See :doc:`node auto scaling </advanced_topics/node_scaling>`
  topic and :ref:`config reference <config_docker_auto_scale>` for more details.
  `#1110 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1110>`_

Bug fixes
=========

* Better handling erroneous tsuru.yaml files with tabs instead of spaces. `#1165
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1165>`_
  
* Restart after hooks now correctly run with environment variables associated to
  applications. `#1159 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1159>`_

* ``tsuru app-shell`` command now works with tsuru api under TLS. `#1148
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1148>`_

* Removing machines from IaaS succeed if referenced machine was already manually
  removed from IaaS. `#1103 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1103>`_

* Deploy details API call (/deploy/<id>) no longer fail with deploys originated by
  running ``tsuru app-deploy``. `#1098
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1098>`_

* Cleaner syslog output without lots of apparmor entries. `#997
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/997>`_

* Running ``tsuru app-deploy`` on Windows now correctly handle directories and
  home path. `#1168 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1168>`_ `#1169
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1169>`_

* Application listing could temporarily fail after removing an application, this
  was fixed. `#1176 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1176>`_

* Running ``tsuru app-shell`` now correctly sets terminal size and TERM
  environment value, also container id is no longer ignored. `#1112
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1112>`_ `#1114
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1114>`_

Other improvements
==================

* Limited number of goroutines started when initiating new units, avoiding
  starving docker with too many simultaneous connections. `#1149
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1149>`_

* There is now a tsr command to run necessary migrations when updating from older
  versions. You can run it with ``tsr migrate`` and it should not have side-
  effects on already up-to-date installations. `#1137
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1137>`_

* Added command ``tsr gandalf-sync``, it should be called if Gandalf is activated
  on an existing tsuru api instance. It's responsible for copying existing users
  and teams credentials to Gandalf. Users added after Gandalf activation in
  tsuru.conf will already be created on Gandalf and this command doesn't needed to
  be called further. `#1138 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1138>`_

* It's now possible to remove all units from an application. `#1111
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1111>`_

* Removing units now uses the scheduler to correctly maintain units balanced
  across nodes when removing a number of units. `#1109
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1109>`_

* tsuru will keep trying to send image to registry during deploy for some time if
  the registry fails on the first request. `#1099
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1099>`_

* It's possible to use a docker registry with authentication support. See
  :ref:`config reference <config_registry_auth>` for more details. `#1182
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1182>`_

* Partial support for docker distribution (registry 2.0). Image removal is not yet
  supported. `#1175 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1175>`_

* Running commands with ``tsuru app-run`` now log command's output to tsuru logs.
  `#986 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/986>`_

* Graceful shutdown of API when SIGTERM or SIGINT is received. The shutdown
  process now is:

  * Stop listening for new connections;
  * Wait for all ongoing connections to end;
  * Forcibly close ``tsuru app-log -f`` connections;
  * Wait for ongoing healing processes to end;
  * Wait for queue tasks to finish running;
  * Wait for ongoing auto scaling processes to end.

  `#776 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/776>`_

* Included lock information in API call returning application information. `#1171
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1171>`_

* Unit names now are prefixed with application's name. `#1160
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1160>`_

* Admin users can now specify which user they want removed. `#1014
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1014>`_

* It's now possible to change metadata associated with a node. `#1016
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1016>`_

* Better error messages on server startup when MongoDB isn't available. `#1125
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1125>`_

Backward incompatible changes (action needed)
=============================================

* There are two migrations that must run before deploying applications with tsr
  0.11.0, they concert pools and can be run with ``tsr migrate``. The way pools
  are handled has changed. Now it's possible for a team to have access to more
  than one pool, if that's the case the pool name will have to be specified during
  application creation. `#1110 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1110>`_

* Queue configuration is necessary for creating and removing machines using a IaaS
  provider. This can be simply done by indicating a MongoDB database configuration
  that will be used by tsuru for managing the queue. No external process is
  necessary. See :ref:`configuration reference <config_queue>` for more
  details. `#1147 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/1147>`_
