=======================
tsr 0.5.0 release notes
=======================

Welcome to tsr 0.5.0!

These release notes cover the `new features`_ and `backwards incompatible
changes`_ you'll want to be aware of when upgrading from tsr 0.4.0 or older
versions.

.. _`new features`: `What's new in tsr 0.5.0`_

What's new in tsr 0.5.0
=======================

Stability and Consistency
-------------------------

One of the main feature on this release is improve the stability and consitency
of the tsuru API.

* prevent inconsitency caused by problems on deploy (`#803
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/803>`_) / (`#804
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/804>`_)
* units information is not updated by collector (`#806
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/806>`_)
* fixed log listener on multiple API hosts (`#762
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/762>`_)
* prevent inconsitency caused by simultaneous operations in an application
  (`#789 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/789>`_)
* prevent inconsitency cause by simultaneous ``env-set`` calls (`#820
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/820>`_)
* store information about errors and identify flawed application deployments
  (`#816 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/816>`_)

Buildpack
---------

tsuru now supports deploying applications using `Heroku Buildpacks
<https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpacks>`_.

Buildpacks are useful if you’re interested in following Heroku’s best practices
for building applications or if you are deploying an application that already
runs on Heroku.

tsuru uses `Buildstep Docker <https://github.com/progrium/buildstep>`_ image to
deploy applications using buildpacks. For more information, take a
look at the buildpacks documentation page:
http://docs.tsuru.io/en/latest/using/buildpacks.html.

Other features
--------------

* filter application logs by unit (`#375
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/375>`_)
* support for deployments with archives, which enables the use of the
  ``pre-receive`` Git hook, and also deployments without Git (`#458
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/458>`_, `#442
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/442>`_ and `#701
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/701>`_)
* stop and start commands (`#606 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/606>`_)
* oauth support (`#752 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/752>`_)
* platform update command (`#780 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/780>`_)
* support services with `https` endpoint (`#812
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/pull/812>`_) / (`#821
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/pull/821>`_)

Platforms
---------

* :doc:`deployment hooks </apps/deploy-hooks>` support for static and PHP applications (`#607
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/607>`_)
* new platform: buildpack (used for buildpack support)

Backwards incompatible changes
==============================

* Juju provisioner was removed. This provisioner was not being maintained. A
  possible idea is to use Juju in the future to provision the tsuru nodes
  instead of units
* ELB router was removed. This router was used only by juju.
* ``tsr admin`` was removed.
* The field ``units`` was removed from the collection ``apps``. Information
  about units are now available in the provisioner. 
  Now the unit state is controlled by provisioner. If you are upgrading tsuru
  from 0.4.0 or an older version you should run the MongoDB script bellow, 
  where the `docker` collection name is the name configured by 
  `docker:collection` in `tsuru.conf`:

.. highlight:: javascript

::

    var migration = function(doc) {
        doc.units.forEach(function(unit){
            db.docker.update({"id": unit.name}, {$set: {"status": unit.state}});
        });
    };
     
    db.apps.find().forEach(migration);
