.. warning::

    Version under development

=======================
tsr 0.6.0 release notes
=======================

Welcome to tsr 0.6.0!

These release notes cover the `new features`_, `bug fixes`_ and `general
improvements`_ you'll want to be aware of when upgrading from tsr 0.6.0 or
older versions.

.. _`new features`: `What's new in tsr 0.6.0`_
.. _`general improvements`: `Other improvements`_

What's new in tsr 0.6.0
=======================

* Removed the ssh-agent dependency. Now tsuru will generate a RSA keypair per
  container, making it more secure and with one less agent running in the
  Docker hosts. Now a Docker host is just a host that runs Docker. tsuru server
  is still able to communicate with containers created using the ssh-agent, but
  won't create any new containers using a preconfigured SSH key. The version
  0.7.0 will delete ssh-agent completely.

* Tsuru now supports managing IaaS providers, this allow Tsuru to provision new
  docker nodes making it a lot easier to install and maintain. The behavior of
  ``docker-node-*`` admin commands was changed to receive machine information and
  new commands have been added. See :doc:`tsuru-admin </reference/tsuru-admin>`
  for more details.

  Right now, EC2 and Cloudstack are supported as IaaS providers. You can see more
  details about how to configure them in the :doc:`config reference </reference/config>`

* Improved handling of unit statuses. Now the unit will communicate with the
  server, minute after minute, updating the status. This will work as a heart
  beat. So the unit will change to the status "error" whenever the heart beat
  fails after 4 minutes or the unit informs that the process failed to install.

* Add the capability to specify the owner of a service instance. tsuru will use
  this information when communicating with the service API

Bug fixes
=========

* fix security issue with user tokens: handlers that expected application token
  did not validate user access properly. With this failure, any authenticated
  user were able to add logs to an application, even if he/she doesn't have
  access to the app.

Breaking changes
================

* tsuru source no longer supports Go 1.1. It's possible that tsuru will build
  with Go 1.1, but it's no longer supported.

* tsuru_unit_agent package is not optional anymore, it must be available in the
  image otherwise the container won't start.

* docker cluster storage format in Redis has changed, also MongoDB is supported as
  an alternative to Redis. There is a `migration script
  <https://gist.github.com/cezarsa/d2c8b8db611af9a2d67d>`_ available which convert
  data in Redis to the new format, and also allows importing Redis data in
  MongoDB.

* since tsuru requires a service instance to have an owner team, i.e. a team
  that owns the service, users that are members of more than one team aren't
  able to create service instances using older versions of tsuru client (any
  version older than 0.11).

* in order to define the owner team of an already created service instance,
  tsuru administrators should run `a migration script
  <https://gist.github.com/fsouza/5e65879c5547fe753f48>`_, that get's the first
  team of the service instance and use it as the owner team.

Other improvements
==================

* improved documentation search and structure
* improved reliability of docker nodes, automatically trying another node in case
  of failures
* experimental support for automatically healing docker nodes added through a IaaS
  provider
* cmd: properly handle multiline cells in tables
* added command ``tsuru-admin ssh`` command
