.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

=======================
tsr 0.7.0 release notes
=======================

Welcome to tsr 0.7.0!

These release notes cover the `new features`_, `bug fixes`_, `backward
incompatible changes`_ and `general improvements`_ you'll want to be aware of
when upgrading from tsr 0.6.0 or older versions.

.. _`new features`: `What's new in tsr 0.7.0`_
.. _`general improvements`: `Other improvements in tsr 0.7.0`_

What's new in tsr 0.7.0
=======================

- quota management via API is back: now tsuru administrators are able to view
  and change the quota of a user of an application. It can be done from the
  remote API or using tsuru-admin (issue `#869
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/869>`_)
- deploy via upload: now it's possible to upload a tar archive to the API. In
  this case, users are able to just drop the file in the tsuru server, without
  using git. This feature enables the deployment of binaries, WAR files, and
  other things that may need local processing (issue `#874
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/874>`_). The tsuru client also
  includes a ``tsuru deploy`` command
- removing platforms via API: now tsuru administrators are able to remove
  platforms from tsuru. It can be done from the remote API or using tsuru-admin
  (issue `#779 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/779>`_)
- new apps now get a new environment variable: ``TSURU_APPDIR``. This
  environment variable represents the path where the application was deployed,
  the root directory of the application (issue `#783
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/783>`_)
- now tsuru server will reload configuration on SIGHUP. Users running the API
  under upstart or other services like that are now able to call the ``reload``
  command and get the expected behaviour (issue `#898
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/898>`_)
- multiple cnames: now it's possible to app have multiple cnames. The ``tsuru set-
  cname`` and ``tsuru unset-cname`` commands changed to ``tsuru add-cname`` and
  ``tsuru remove-cname`` respectively (issue `#677
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/677>`_).
- tsuru is now able to heal failing nodes and containers automatically, this is
  disabled by default. Instructions can be found in the :ref:`config reference
  <config_healing>`
- set app’s owner team: now it’s possible to user to change app’s owner team.
  App’s new owner team should be one of user’s team. Admin user can change app's
  owner team to any team. (issue `#894
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/894>`_).
- Now it's possible to configure a health check request path to be called during
  the deployment process of an application. tsuru will make sure the health check
  is passing before switching the router to the newly created units. See
  :ref:`health check docs <yaml_healthcheck>` for more details.

Bug fixes
=========

- API: fix the endpoint for creating new services so it returns 409 Conflict
  instead of 500 when there's already a service registered with the provided
  name

- PlatformAdd: returns better error when an platform is added but theres no node
  to build the platform image (issue `#906
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/906>`_).

Other improvements in tsr 0.7.0
===============================

- API: improve the App swap endpoint, so it will refuse to swap incompatible
  apps. Two apps are incompatible if they don't use the same platform or don't
  have the same amount of units. Users can force the swap of incompatible apps
  by providing the force parameter (issue `#582
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/582>`_)
- API: admin users now see all service instances in the service instances list
  endpoint (issue `#614 <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/614>`_)
- API: Handler that returns information about the deploy has implemented. Its
  included the diff attribute that returns the difference between the last
  commit and the preceding it.

Backward incompatible changes
=============================

- ``tsr ssh-agent`` has been totally removed, it's no longe possible to use it
  with tsuru server
- tsuru no longer accepts teams with space in the name (issue `#674
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/674>`_)
- tsuru no longer supports ``docker:cluster:storage`` set to ``redis``, the only
  storage available is now ``mongodb``. See :ref:`config reference
  <config_cluster_storage>` for more details. Also, there's a `python script
  <https://gist.github.com/cezarsa/d2c8b8db611af9a2d67d>`_ that can be used to
  migrate from ``redis`` to ``mongodb``.
- Hooks semantic has changed, ``restart:before-each`` and ``restart:after-each``
  no longer exist and now ``restart:before`` and ``restart:afer`` run on every
  unit. Also existing ``app.yaml`` file should be renamed to ``tsuru.yaml``. See
  :ref:`hooks <yaml_deployment_hooks>` for more details.
- Existing platform images should be updated due to changes in tsuru-circus and
  tsuru-unit-agent. Old platforms still work, but support will be dropped on the
  next version.
- router cnames should be migrate from string to list in redis. There is a `script
  <https://gist.github.com/tarsisazevedo/c31c0e6ba62bee002784>`_ that can be used to migrate it.
- app should be migrate from string to list in mongo too. You can execute this code to do it:

::

    db.apps.find().forEach(function(item) {
        cname = item.cname;
        item.cname !== "" ? item.cname = [cname]:item.cname = [];
        db.apps.save(item);
    })
