.. Copyright 2014 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

=======================
tsr 0.9.0 release notes
=======================

Welcome to tsr 0.9.0!

These release notes cover the :ref:`new features <new-0.9.0>`,
:ref:`bug fixes <bug-0.9.0>`,
:ref:`backward incompatible changes <backwards-0.9.0>`,
:ref:`general improvements <general-0.9.0>` and
:ref:`changes in the API <api-0.9.0>` you'll want to be aware of when upgrading
from tsr 0.8.0 or older versions.

.. _new-0.9.0:

What's new in tsr 0.9.0
=======================

* Now tsuru users can generate an API key, enabling authentication with no
  interactions required and having a token that never expires. Users can
  generate a new API key at any time using the command ``tsuru token-regenerate`` to
  replace the old one. To view the current key that you own, just use the
  command ``tsuru token-show``.

* It's possible to use templates to create machines in the IaaS provider with
  ``docker-node-add``. See `machine-template-add
  <http://tsuru-admin.readthedocs.org/en/latest/#machine-template-add>`_ command for more details.

* ``TSURU_SERVICES`` environment variable: this environment variable lists all
  service instances that the application is bound. This enables binding an
  application to multiple instances of a service (issue `#991
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/991>`_). For more details, check the
  :doc:`TSURU_SERVICES documentation </services/tsuru-services-env-var>`.

* auto scale: tsuru now includes an experimental support for auto scale. The auto scale uses the
  metric system to know when scale.
  To enable auto scale you should add the ``autoscale: true`` in then ``tsuru.conf``.

.. _bug-0.9.0:

Bug fixes
=========

* app: SetEnvs not return error in apps with no units (issue `#954
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/954>`_).
* iaas/ec2: fixed panic after machine creation timeout.

.. _general-0.9.0:

Other improvements in tsr 0.9.0
===============================

* Improvements to EC2 IaaS provider, it now accepts user-data config through
  ``iaas:ec2:user-data`` and a timeout for machine creation with
  ``iaas:ec2:wait-timeout`` config.
* A new debug route is available in the API: ``/debug/goroutines``. It can only be
  hit with admin credentials and will dump a trace of each running goroutine.

.. _backwards-0.9.0:

Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* Service API flow: the service API flow has changed, splitting the bind
  process in two steps: binding/unbinding the application and binding/unbinding
  the units. The old flow is now deprecated (issue `#982
  <https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues/982>`_).

.. _api-0.9.0:

API changes
===========

For more details on the API, please refer to the :doc:`tsuru API documentation
</reference/api>`.

* ``/users/keys``: in previous versions of the API, this endpoint was used for
  adding and removing keys from the user account. Now it also lists the keys
  registered in the account of the user. Here is a summary of the behavior of
  this endpoint:

    - ``GET``: return the list of keys registered in the user account
    - ``POST``: add a new SSH key to the user account
    - ``DELETE``: remove a SSH key from the user account

  For the two last kind of requests, the user is now able to specify the name
  of the key, as well as the content.
