docs/managing/using-pools.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

+++++++++++++++++++
Using Pools
+++++++++++++++++++

Overview
========

Pool is used by provisioners to group nodes and know if an application can be
deployed in these nodes. Users can choose which pool to deploy in `tsuru
app-create`.

Adding a pool
-------------

In order to create a pool, you should invoke `tsuru-admin pool-add`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-add pool1

Adding teams to a pool
----------------------

Then you can use `tsuru-admin pool-teams-add` to add teams to the pool that
you've just created:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-add pool1 team1 team2

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-add pool2 team3

Listing pools
-------------

To list pools you do:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-list
    +-------+-------------+
    | Pools | Teams       |
    +-------+-------------+
    | pool1 | team1 team2 |
    | pool2 | team3       |
    +-------+-------------+

Removing a pool
---------------

If you want to remove a pool, use `tsuru-admin pool-remove`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-remove pool1


Removing teams from a pool
--------------------------

You can remove one or more teams from a pool using the command `tsuru-admin
pool-teams-remove`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-remove pool1 team1

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-remove pool1 team1 team2 team3

Commit message:

docs: add docs to pool. Related to #1202

docs/managing/using-pools.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

+++++++++++++++++++
Using Pools
+++++++++++++++++++

Overview
========

Pool is used by provisioners to group nodes and know if an application can be
deployed in these nodes. Users can choose which pool to deploy in `tsuru
app-create`.

Adding a pool
-------------

In order to create a pool, you should invoke `tsuru-admin pool-add`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-add pool1

If you want to create a public pool you can do:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-add pool1 -p

If you want a default pool, you can create it with:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-add pool1 -d


Adding teams to a pool
----------------------

Then you can use `tsuru-admin pool-teams-add` to add teams to the pool that
you've just created:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-add pool1 team1 team2

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-add pool2 team3

Listing pools
-------------

To list pools you do:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-list
    +-------+-------------+
    | Pools | Teams       |
    +-------+-------------+
    | pool1 | team1 team2 |
    | pool2 | team3       |
    +-------+-------------+

Removing a pool
---------------

If you want to remove a pool, use `tsuru-admin pool-remove`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-remove pool1


Removing teams from a pool
--------------------------

You can remove one or more teams from a pool using the command `tsuru-admin
pool-teams-remove`:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-remove pool1 team1

    $ tsuru-admin pool-teams-remove pool1 team1 team2 team3
