docs/contributing/index.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

++++++++++++
Contributing
++++++++++++

* Source hosted at `GitHub <http://github.com/tsuru/tsuru>`_
* Report issues on `GitHub Issues <http://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues>`_

Pull requests are very welcome! Make sure your patches are well tested and documented :)


Development environment
=======================

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    coding-style
    vagrant

See this guide to :doc:`to setup a development environment using Vagrant </contributing/vagrant>`.

And follow our :doc:`coding style guide </contributing/coding-style>`.

Running the tests
=================

You can use `make` to install all tsuru dependencies and run tests. It will also check if everything is ok with your `GOPATH` setup:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ make

Please ensure that MongoDB and Redis are started before running the test suite. If you see some tests failures with messages like "dial tcp 127.0.0.1:6379: connection refused" and "no reachable server", the most likely reason is that these services are not running.

If you just want to run the tests you can use `make test`.

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ make test

Writing docs
============

tsuru documentation is written using `Sphinx <http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`_,
which uses `RST <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html>`_.
Check these tools docs to learn how to write docs for tsuru.

Building docs
=============

In order to build the HTML docs, just run on terminal:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ make doc

Community
=========

irc channel
-----------

#tsuru channel on irc.freenode.net - chat with other tsuru users and developers.

Gitter
------

We're also on Gitter, check it out: https://gitter.im/tsuru/tsuru.

Release Process
===============

tsuru major releases are guided by `GitHub milestones
<https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/milestones/>`_. New releases should be
generated by `make release version=new-version-number`.

Commit message:

Fixed a few typos and clarified a few confusing parts of the documentation.

docs/contributing/index.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

++++++++++++
Contributing
++++++++++++

* Source hosted at `GitHub <http://github.com/tsuru/tsuru>`_
* Report issues on `GitHub Issues <http://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/issues>`_

Pull requests are very welcome! Make sure your patches are well tested and documented :)


Development environment
=======================

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    coding-style
    vagrant

See this guide to :doc:`to setup a development environment using Vagrant </contributing/vagrant>`.

And follow our :doc:`coding style guide </contributing/coding-style>`.

Running the tests
=================

You can use `make` to install all tsuru dependencies and run tests. It will also check if everything is ok with your `GOPATH` setup:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ make

Please ensure that MongoDB and Redis are started before running the test suite. If you see some test failures with messages like "dial tcp 127.0.0.1:6379: connection refused" and "no reachable server", the most likely reason is that these services are not running.

If you just want to run the tests you can use `make test`.

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ make test

Writing docs
============

tsuru documentation is written using `Sphinx <http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`_,
which uses `RST <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html>`_.
Check out these tools documentation to learn how to write and update the documentation for tsuru.

Building docs
=============

In order to build the HTML docs, just run in a terminal window:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ make doc

Community
=========

irc channel
-----------

#tsuru channel on irc.freenode.net - chat with other tsuru users and developers.

Gitter
------

We're also on Gitter, check it out: https://gitter.im/tsuru/tsuru.

Release Process
===============

tsuru major releases are guided by `GitHub milestones
<https://github.com/tsuru/tsuru/milestones/>`_. New releases should be
generated by `make release version=new-version-number`.
