docs/reference/tsuru-client.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2014 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

++++++++++++
Client usage
++++++++++++

After :doc:`installing the tsuru client </using/install-client>`, you must set the
target with the tsuru server URL, something like:

Setting a target
================

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru target-add default https://cloud.tsuru.io
    $ tsuru target-set default

Authentication
==============

After that, all you need is to create a user and authenticate to start creating
apps and pushing code to them. Use `create-user
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Create_a_user>`_ and
`login
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Authenticate_within_remote_tsuru_server>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru user-create youremail@gmail.com
    $ tsuru login youremail@gmail.com

Apps
====

Associating your user to a team
-------------------------------

You need to be member of a team to create an app. To create a new team, use
`create-team
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Create_a_new_team_for_the_user>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru team-create teamname

Creating an app
---------------

To create an app, use `app-create
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Create_an_app>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app-create myblog <platform>

This will return your app's remote url, you should add it to your git
repository:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ git remote add tsuru git@tsuru.myhost.com:myblog.git

Listing your apps
-----------------

When your app is ready, you can push to it. To check whether it is ready or
not, you can use `app-list
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-List_apps_that_you_have_access_to>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app-list

This will return something like:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    +-------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
    | Application | Units State Summary     | Ip                                        |
    +-------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
    | myblog      | 1 of 1 units in-service | myblog-838381.us-east-1-elb.amazonaws.com |
    +-------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

Showing app info
----------------

You can also use the `app-info
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Display_information_about_an_app>`_
command to view information of an app. Including the status of the app:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app-info

This will return something like:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    Application: myblog
    Platform: gunicorn
    Repository: git@githost.com:myblog.git
    Teams: team1, team2
    Units:
    +----------+---------+
    | Unit     | State   |
    +----------+---------+
    | myblog/0 | started |
    | myblog/1 | started |
    +----------+---------+

tsuru uses information from git configuration to guess the name of the app, for
more details, see `"Guessing app names"
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Guessing_app_names>`_
section of tsuru command documentation.

Public Keys
===========

You can try to push now, but you'll get a permission error, because you haven't
pushed your key yet.

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru key-add

This will search for a `id_rsa.pub` file in ~/.ssh/, if you don't have a
generated key yet, you should generate one before running this command.

If you have a public key in other format (for example, DSA), you can also give
the public key file to `key-add
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Add_SSH_public_key_to_tsuru_s_git_server>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru key-add $HOME/.ssh/id_dsa.pub

After your key is added, you can push your application to your cloud:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ git push tsuru master

Running commands
================

After that, you can check your app's url in the browser and see your app there.
You'll probably need to run migrations or other deploy related commands. To run
a single command, you should use the command `run
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Run_an_arbitrary_command_in_the_app_machine>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru run "python manage.py syncdb && python manage.py migrate"

Further instructions
====================

For a complete reference, check the documentation for tsuru command:
`<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru>`_.

Commit message:

docs: update docs describing plans

docs/reference/tsuru-client.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2014 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

++++++++++++
Client usage
++++++++++++

After :doc:`installing the tsuru client </using/install-client>`, you must set the
target with the tsuru server URL, something like:

Setting a target
================

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru target-add default https://cloud.tsuru.io
    $ tsuru target-set default

Authentication
==============

After that, all you need is to create a user and authenticate to start creating
apps and pushing code to them. Use `create-user
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Create_a_user>`_ and
`login
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Authenticate_within_remote_tsuru_server>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru user-create youremail@gmail.com
    $ tsuru login youremail@gmail.com

Apps
====

Associating your user to a team
-------------------------------

You need to be member of a team to create an app. To create a new team, use
`create-team
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Create_a_new_team_for_the_user>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru team-create teamname

Creating an app
---------------

To create an app, use `app-create
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Create_an_app>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app-create myblog <platform> [--plan/-p plan_name] [--team/-t team_owner]


The ``platform`` parameter is the name of the platform to be used when creating
the app. This will definer how tsuru understands and executes your app. The list
of available platforms can be found running ``tsuru platform-list``.

The ``--plan`` parameter defines the plan to be used. The plan specifies how
computational resources are allocated to your application. Typically this means
limits for memory and swap usage, and how much cpu share is allocated. The list of
available plans can be found running ``tsuru plan-list``.

If this parameter is not informed, tsuru will choose the plan with the ``default``
flag set to true.

The ``team`` parameter describes which team is responsible for the created app,
this is only needed if the current user belongs to more than one team, in which
case this parameter will be mandatory.

After running successfully the command will return your app's remote url, you
should add it to your git repository:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ git remote add tsuru git@tsuru.myhost.com:myblog.git


Listing your apps
-----------------

When your app is ready, you can push to it. To check whether it is ready or
not, you can use `app-list
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-List_apps_that_you_have_access_to>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app-list

This will return something like:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    +-------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
    | Application | Units State Summary     | Ip                                        |
    +-------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
    | myblog      | 1 of 1 units in-service | myblog-838381.us-east-1-elb.amazonaws.com |
    +-------------+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

Showing app info
----------------

You can also use the `app-info
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Display_information_about_an_app>`_
command to view information of an app. Including the status of the app:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru app-info

This will return something like:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    Application: myblog
    Platform: gunicorn
    Repository: git@githost.com:myblog.git
    Teams: team1, team2
    Units:
    +----------+---------+
    | Unit     | State   |
    +----------+---------+
    | myblog/0 | started |
    | myblog/1 | started |
    +----------+---------+

tsuru uses information from git configuration to guess the name of the app, for
more details, see `"Guessing app names"
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Guessing_app_names>`_
section of tsuru command documentation.

Public Keys
===========

You can try to push now, but you'll get a permission error, because you haven't
pushed your key yet.

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru key-add

This will search for a `id_rsa.pub` file in ~/.ssh/, if you don't have a
generated key yet, you should generate one before running this command.

If you have a public key in other format (for example, DSA), you can also give
the public key file to `key-add
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Add_SSH_public_key_to_tsuru_s_git_server>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru key-add $HOME/.ssh/id_dsa.pub

After your key is added, you can push your application to your cloud:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ git push tsuru master

Running commands
================

After that, you can check your app's url in the browser and see your app there.
You'll probably need to run migrations or other deploy related commands. To run
a single command, you should use the command `run
<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru#hdr-Run_an_arbitrary_command_in_the_app_machine>`_:

.. highlight:: bash

::

    $ tsuru run "python manage.py syncdb && python manage.py migrate"

Further instructions
====================

For a complete reference, check the documentation for tsuru command:
`<http://godoc.org/github.com/tsuru/tsuru-client/tsuru>`_.
