docs/understanding/overview.rst, before:

========
Overview
========

tsuru is an extensible and open source Platform as a Service (PaaS) that makes
application deployments faster and easier.
tsuru is an open source polyglot cloud application platform (PaaS).
With tsuru, you don’t need to think about servers at all.
As an application developer, you can:

- Write apps in the programming language of your choice,
- Back apps with add-on resources such as SQL and NoSQL databases, including memcached, redis, and many others.
- Manage apps using the ``tsuru`` command-line tool
- Deploy apps using the Git revision control system

Why tsuru?
==========

Fast and easy and continuous deployment
---------------------------------------

Deploying an app is simple and easy. No special tools needed, just a plain git
push. The entire process is very simple. tsuru will also take care of all the
applications dependencies in the deployment process.

Easily create testing, staging, and production versions of your app and deploy
to them instantly.

Scaling
-------

Scaling applications is completely painless.
Just add a unit and tsuru will take care of everything else.

Reliable
--------

tsuru has a set of tools to make sure that the applications will be always
available.

Open source
-----------

tsuru is free, open source software released under the BSD 3-Clause license.

Commit message:

docs: add copyright banner to all doc files

docs/understanding/overview.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2015 tsuru authors. All rights reserved.
   Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
   license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

========
Overview
========

tsuru is an extensible and open source Platform as a Service (PaaS) that makes
application deployments faster and easier.
tsuru is an open source polyglot cloud application platform (PaaS).
With tsuru, you don’t need to think about servers at all.
As an application developer, you can:

- Write apps in the programming language of your choice,
- Back apps with add-on resources such as SQL and NoSQL databases, including memcached, redis, and many others.
- Manage apps using the ``tsuru`` command-line tool
- Deploy apps using the Git revision control system

Why tsuru?
==========

Fast and easy and continuous deployment
---------------------------------------

Deploying an app is simple and easy. No special tools needed, just a plain git
push. The entire process is very simple. tsuru will also take care of all the
applications dependencies in the deployment process.

Easily create testing, staging, and production versions of your app and deploy
to them instantly.

Scaling
-------

Scaling applications is completely painless.
Just add a unit and tsuru will take care of everything else.

Reliable
--------

tsuru has a set of tools to make sure that the applications will be always
available.

Open source
-----------

tsuru is free, open source software released under the BSD 3-Clause license.
